---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

Entering the new paradigm of building peer-to-peer applications secured through cryptographic functions require a steep learning curve. There are a lot great gloassries, explaining these concepts and general terminoligy, such as the [a16z crypto glossary](https://a16z.com/2019/11/08/crypto-glossary/).

In the following, radicle and registry specific terms will be explained.

### Radicle & Registry

#### Identity
Collection of public keys and profile data published by a user to the network. The minimal identity a user can have is a **Device ID**. To further extend this identity, users can associate Device IDs to a global identity.

#### Device ID
A user identity tied to a physical device. Similar to SSB IDs. Device IDs are created per-device and should never be copied to another device. Items created in Radicle are almost always signed by the Device ID.

#### Node
Running instance of the radicle protocol. There is usually one node running per *Device ID*.

#### Seed Node
An always-on node which replicates and serves data to connected peers.

#### Public Seed Node
A seed node which is meant to be used in a public context, eg. allowing any user with an invite code to have their data seeded. Similar to the "pub" in SSB.

#### Peer
Connected node. Nodes are peers to each other. A user can only replicate data from one of their peers.

#### Repository
A VCS repository that may contain code, issues or other data.

#### Project
A set of repositories under the same project identity*.* Repositories under a project share the same *Project ID*.

#### Project ID
A unique 32-byte random identifier representing a project. Project IDs are generated by radicle.

#### Project Name
Human-readable project name of the form `<name>.<domain>`, eg. `oculus.rad`. 

#### Local Repository
Local representation of a Project. Changes made to your local repository are local and private until they are explicitly pushed to a remote.

#### Remote Repository
A remote copy of a repository with the same *Project ID*, tracked by the VCS. Remotes can be pulled/fetched from.

#### Rad Remote/Origin
The remote a user has to push to for their repository to be published on radicle. This is the only remote managed by radicle that can be pushed to.

#### Upstream
The repository in which code contributions for a project are intended to be merged once they pass the review process. Also known as *canonical upstream* or *mainline*. The upstream is often the repository of the project's original maintainer or creator. For everyone but the owner of this repository, *upstream* will be a **remote**.

#### Maintainer
User with certain priviledges that is *trusted* by a project. There can be more than one maintainer per project. Maintainers are a subset of *contributors*.

#### Contributor
User which has contributed code or other data to a project. A user who clones a project and commits code to their local copy is not yet a contributor. Once that code is merged upstream, they become a contributor.

### Actions

#### Connecting
Creating a network/physical connection to a peer. Connected peers gossip project and other data with each other.

#### Publishing
Making data public to the network. Once something is published, it may be replicated and stored in multiple copies on the network. Data published by a user will be seeded by their node on the device from which it was published.

#### Cloning
Running the `git clone` command against a radicle project, with the intent of contributing code to it.

#### Forking
Creating a new project with the intent of diverging from an existing one. This isn't recognized by radicle as anything other than a new project.

#### Replicating
See "*seeding".*

#### Seeding
Offering project data to peers. This is how projects become available on the network, and can be a way of supporting/contributing to a project.

#### Tracking
Subscribing to the changes of a remote *repository.* Similar to "following" in SSB.

#### Joining
Joining a public seed node, such that it seeds your projects and routes messages of interest to you.

#### Checkpointing
Anchoring a project state hash on the registry. This sets the project state as canonical/trusted.